{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15800\viewh13880\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Greek: astatos (unstable).\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Sources:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Does not occur in nature. Produced by bombarding bismuth with alpha particles.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Uses:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	None\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Synthesized in 1940 by D. R. Corson, K. R. MacKenzie, and E. Segre at the University of California by bombarding bismuth with alpha particles. The longest-lived isotopes, 
\fs20 \super 210
\fs24 \nosupersub At, have a half-life of only 8.1 hours. Thirty-four isotopes and isomers are now known. Minute quantities of 
\fs20 \super 215
\fs24 \nosupersub At, 
\fs20 \super 218
\fs24 \nosupersub At, and 
\fs20 \super 219
\fs24 \nosupersub At exist in equilibrium in nature with naturally occurring uranium and thorium isotopes, and traces of 
\fs20 \super 217
\fs24 \nosupersub At are equilibrium with 
\fs20 \super 233
\fs24 \nosupersub U and 
\fs20 \super 239
\fs24 \nosupersub Np resulting from interaction of thorium and uranium with naturally produced neutrons. The total amount of astatine present in the earth\'d5s crust, however, is less than 1 oz. Astatine can be produced by bombarding bismuth with energetic alpha particles to obtain the relatively long-lived 
\fs20 \super 209
\fs24 \super \'d0
\fs20 \super 211
\fs24 \nosupersub At, which can be distilled from the target by heating it in air. Only about 0.05 mg of astatine has been prepared to date. The \'d2time of flight\'d3 mass spectrometer has been used to confirm that this highly radioactive halogen behaves chemically very much like other halogens, particularly iodine. The interhalogen compounds AtI, AtBr, and AtCl are known to form, but it is not yet known if astatine forms diatomic astatine molecules. HAt and CH
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub At (methyl astatide) have been detected. Astatine is said to be more metallic that iodine, and, like iodine, it probably accumulates in the thyroid gland. Workers at the Brookhaven National Laboratory have recently used reactive scattering in crossed molecular beams to identify and measure elementary reactions involving astatine.\
}