{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20740\viewh14720\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	After the city of Dubna Russia home to the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	First synthisized by bombarding 
\fs20 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub Am with 
\fs20 \super 22
\fs24 \nosupersub Ne\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	None\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\

\f1\b0 	In 1967 G. N. Flerov reported that a Soviet team working at the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research at Dubna may have produced a few atoms of 
\fs20 \super 260
\fs24 \nosupersub Db and 
\fs20 \super 261
\fs24 \nosupersub Db by bombarding 
\fs20 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub Am with 
\fs20 \super 22
\fs24 \nosupersub Ne. Their evidence was based on time-coincidence measurements of alpha energies. More recently, it was reported that early in 1970 Dubna scientists synthesized Element 105 and that by the end of April 1970 \'d2had investigated all the types of decay of the new element and had determined its chemical properties.\'d3 The Soviet group proposed the name joliotium for Element 105. In late April 1970, it was announced that Ghiorso, Nurmia, Harris, K. A. Y. Eskola, and P. L. Eskola, working at the University of California at Berkeley, had positively identified Element 105. The discovery was made by bombarding a target of 
\fs20 \super 249
\fs24 \nosupersub Cf with a beam of 84 MeV nitrogen nuclei in the Heavy Ion Linear Accelerator (HILAC). When a 15N nuclear is absorbed by a 
\fs20 \super 249
\fs24 \nosupersub Cf nucleus, four neutrons are emitted and a new atom of 
\fs20 \super 260
\fs24 \nosupersub Db with a halflife of 1.6 s is formed. While the first atoms of Element 105 are said to have been detected conclusively on March 5, 1970, there is evidence that Element 105 had been formed in Berkeley experiments a year earlier by the method described. Ghiorso and his associates have attempted to confirm Soviet findings by more sophisticated methods without success. In October 1971, it was announced that two new isotopes of Element 105 were synthesized with the heavy ion linear accelerator by A. Ghiorso and co-workers at Berkeley. Element 
\fs20 \super 261
\fs24 \nosupersub Db was produced both by bombarding 
\fs20 \super 250
\fs24 \nosupersub Cf with 
\fs20 \super 15
\fs24 \nosupersub N and by bombarding 
\fs20 \super 249
\fs24 \nosupersub Bk with 
\fs20 \super 16
\fs24 \nosupersub O. The isotope emits 8.93-MeV aparticles and decays to 
\fs20 \super 257
\fs24 \nosupersub Lr with a half-life of about 1.8 s. Element 
\fs20 \super 262
\fs24 \nosupersub Db was produced by bombarding 
\fs20 \super 249
\fs24 \nosupersub Bk with 
\fs20 \super 18
\fs24 \nosupersub O. It emits 8.45 MeV aparticles and decays to 
\fs20 \super 258
\fs24 \nosupersub Lr with a half-life of about 40 s. Eight isotopes of Element 105 are now recognized. In 1997, the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry adopted the name dubnium for Element 105.\
}