{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16160\viewh14320\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	After the scientist Enrico Fermi.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Sources:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Produced by bombarding lighter transuranium elements with still lighter particles or by neutron capture.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Uses:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	None\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	
\f1\b0 Fermium, the eighth transuranium element of the actinide series to be discovered, was identified by Ghiorso and co-workers in 1952 in the debris from a thermonuclear explosion in the Pacific in work involving the University of California Radiation Laboratory, the Argonne National Laboratory, and the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory. The isotope produced was the 20-hour 
\fs20 \super 255
\fs24 \nosupersub Fm. During 1953 and early 1954, while discovery of elements 99 and 100 was withheld from publication for security reasons, a group from the Nobel Institute of Physics in Stockholm bombarded 
\fs20 \super 238
\fs24 \nosupersub U with 
\fs20 \super 16
\fs24 \nosupersub O ions, and isolated a 30-min a-emitter, which they ascribed to 
\fs20 \super 250
\fs24 \nosupersub Fm, without claiming discovery of the element. This isotope has since been identified positively, and the 30-min half-life confirmed. The chemical properties of fermium have been studied solely with tracer amounts, and in normal aqueous media only the (III) oxidation state appears to exist. The isotope 
\fs20 \super 254
\fs24 \nosupersub Fm and heavier isotopes can be produced by intense neutron irradiation of lower elements such as plutonium by a process of successive neutron capture interspersed with beta decays until these mass numbers and atomic numbers are reached. Twenty isotopes and isomers of fermium are known to exist. 
\fs20 \super 257
\fs24 \nosupersub Fm, with a half-life of about 100.5 days, is the longest lived. 
\fs20 \super 250
\fs24 \nosupersub Fm, with a half-life of 30 min, has been shown to be a product of decay of Element 
\fs20 \super 250
\fs24 \nosupersub No. It was by chemical identification of 
\fs20 \super 250
\fs24 \nosupersub Fm that production of Element 102 (nobelium) was confirmed. \
}