{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20060\viewh15060\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	After Alfred Nobel, who invented dynamite and founded Nobel Prize.\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Made by bombarding curium with carbon 13\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	None\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Nobelium was unambiguously discovered and identified in April 1958 at Berkeley by A. Ghiorso, T. Sikkeland, J. R. Walton, and G. T. Seaborg, who used a new double-recoil technique. A heavy-ion linear accelerator (HILAC) was used to bombard a thin target of curium (95% 244Cm and 4.5% 246Cm) with 
\fs20 \super 12
\fs24 \nosupersub C ions to produce 
\fs20 \super 254
\fs24 \nosupersub No according to the 
\fs20 \super 246
\fs24 \nosupersub Cm (
\fs20 \super 12
\fs24 \nosupersub C, 4n) reaction. Earlier in 1957 workers of the U.S., Britain, and Sweden announced the discovery of an isotope of Element 102 with a 10-min half-life at 8.5 MeV, as a result of bombarding 
\fs20 \super 244
\fs24 \nosupersub Cm with 
\fs20 \super 13
\fs24 \nosupersub C nuclei. On the basis of this experiment the name nobelium was assigned and accepted by the Commission on Atomic Weights of the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry. The acceptance of the name was premature, for both Russian and American efforts now completely rule out the possibility of any isotope of Element 102 having a half-life of 10 min in the vicinity of 8.5 MeV. Early work in 1957 on the search for this element, in Russia at the Kurchatov Institute, was marred by the assignment of 8.9 \'b1 0.4 MeV alpha radiation with a half-life of 2 to 40 sec, which was too indefinite to support claim to discovery. Confirmatory experiments at Berkeley in 1966 have shown the existence of 
\fs20 \super 254
\fs24 \nosupersub No with a 55-s half-life, 
\fs20 \super 252
\fs24 \nosupersub No with a 2.3-s half-life, and 
\fs20 \super 257
\fs24 \nosupersub No with a 25-s half-life. Twelve isotopes are now recognized, one of which \'d1 
\fs20 \super 255
\fs24 \nosupersub No has a half-life of 3.1 min. In view of the discover\'d5s traditional right to name an element, the Berkeley group, in 1967, suggested that the hastily given name nobelium, along with the symbol No, be retained.\
}