{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21800\viewh14440\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	From planet Uranus.\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Occurs in many rocks, but in large amounts only in such minerals as pitchblende and carnotite.\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	For many centuries it was used as a pigment for glass. Now it is used as a fuel in nuclear reactors and in nuclear bombs. Depleted Uranium is used in casings of armor piercing arterial shells, armor plating on tanks and as ballast in the wings of some large aircraft.\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\

\f1\b0 	Yellow-colored glass, containing more than 1% uranium oxide and dating back to 79 A.D., has been found near Naples, Italy. Klaproth recognized an unknown element in pitchblende and attempted to isolate the metal in 1789. The metal apparently was first isolated in 1841 by Peligot, who reduced the anhydrous chloride with potassium. Uranium is not as rare as it was once thought. It is now considered to be more plentiful than mercury, antimony, silver, or cadmium, and is about as abundant as molybdenum or arsenic. It occurs in numerous minerals such as pitchblende, uraninite, carnotite, autunite, uranophane, davidite, and tobernite. It is also found in phosphate rock, lignite, monazite sands, and can be recovered commercially from these sources. Large deposits of uranium ore occur in Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, Canada, and elsewhere. The U.S.D.O.E. purchases uranium in the form of acceptable U
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub O
\fs20 \sub 8
\fs24 \nosupersub  concentrates. This incentive program has greatly increased the known uranium reserves. Uranium can be made by reducing uranium halides with alkali or alkaline earth metals or by reducing uranium oxides by calcium, aluminum, or carbon at high temperatures. The metal can also be produced by electrolysis of KUF
\fs20 \sub 5
\fs24 \nosupersub  or UF
\fs20 \sub 4
\fs24 \nosupersub , dissolved in a molten mixture of CaCl
\fs20 \sub 2
\fs24 \nosupersub  and NaCl. High-purity uranium can be prepared by the thermal decomposition of uranium halides on a hot filament. Uranium exhibits three crystallographic modifications as follows:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\f2 \cf0 \uc0\u945 \u8594 
\f1 688\'a1
\f2 \uc0\u8594 \u946 \u8594 
\f1 776\'a1
\f2 \uc0\u8594 \u978 
\f1 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Uranium is a heavy, silvery-white metal which is pyrophoric when finely divided. It is a little softer than steel, and is attacked by cold water in a finely divided state. It is malleable, ductile, and slightly paramagnetic. In air, the metal becomes coated with a layer of oxide. Acids dissolve the metal, but it is unaffected by alkalis. Uranium has twenty three isotopes, one of which is an isomer and all of which are radioactive. Naturally occurring uranium contains 99.2745% by weight 
\fs20 \super 238
\fs24 \nosupersub U, 0.720% 
\fs20 \super 235
\fs24 \nosupersub U, and 0.0055% 
\fs20 \super 234
\fs24 \nosupersub U. Studies show that the percentage weight of 
\fs20 \super 235
\fs24 \nosupersub U in natural uranium varies by as much as 0.1%, depending on the source. The U.S.D.O.E. has adopted the value of 0.711 as being their \'d2official\'d3 percentage of 
\fs20 \super 235
\fs24 \nosupersub U in natural uranium. Natural uranium is sufficiently radioactive to expose a photographic plate in an hour or so. Much of the internal heat of the earth is thought to be attributable to the presence of uranium and thorium. 
\fs20 \super 238
\fs24 \nosupersub U with a half-life of 4.46 x 10
\fs20 \super 9
\fs24 \nosupersub  years, has been used to estimate the age of igneous rocks. The origin of uranium, the highest member of the naturally occurring elements \'d1 except perhaps for traces of neptunium or plutonium \'d1 is not clearly understood, although it may be presumed that uranium is a decay product of elements of higher atomic weight, which may have once been present on earth or elsewhere in the universe. These original elements may have been formed as a result of a primordial \'d2creation,\'d3 known as \'d2the big bang,\'d3 in a supernova, or in some other stellar processes. Uranium is of great importance as a nuclear fuel. 
\fs20 \super 238
\fs24 \nosupersub U can be converted into fissionable plutonium by the following reactions: \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\fs20 \cf0 \super 238
\fs24 \nosupersub U(n,
\f2 \uc0\u978 )\u8594 
\f1\fs20 \super 239
\fs24 \nosupersub U
\f2 \uc0\u8594 \u946 \u8594 
\f1\fs20 \super 239
\fs24 \nosupersub Np
\f2 \uc0\u8594 \u946 \u8594 
\f1\fs20 \super 239
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 This nuclear conversion can be brought about in \'d2breeder\'d3 reactors where it is possible to produce more new fissionable material than the fissionable material used in maintaining the chain reaction. 235U is of even greater importance, for it is the key to the utilization of uranium. 
\fs20 \super 235
\fs24 \nosupersub U, while occurring in natural uranium to the extent of only 0.71%, is so fissionable with slow neutrons that a self-sustaining fission chain reaction can be made to occur in a reactor constructed from natural uranium and a suitable moderator, such as heavy water or graphite, alone. 
\fs20 \super 235
\fs24 \nosupersub U can be concentrated by gaseous diffusion and other physical processes, if desired, and used directly as a nuclear fuel, instead of natural uranium, or used as an explosive. Natural uranium, slightly enriched with 
\fs20 \super 235
\fs24 \nosupersub U by a small percentage, is used to fuel nuclear power reactors for the generation of electricity. Natural thorium can be irradiated with neutrons as follows to produce the important isotope 
\fs20 \super 233
\fs24 \nosupersub U. \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\fs20 \cf0 \super 232
\fs24 \nosupersub Th(n,
\f2 \uc0\u978 )\u8594 
\f1\fs20 \super 233
\fs24 \nosupersub Th
\f2 \uc0\u8594 \u946 \u8594 
\f1\fs20 \super 233
\fs24 \nosupersub Pa
\f2 \uc0\u8594 \u946 \u8594 
\f1\fs20 \super 233
\fs24 \nosupersub U\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 While thorium itself is not fissionable, 
\fs20 \super 233
\fs24 \nosupersub U is, and in this way may be used as a nuclear fuel. One pound of completely fissioned uranium has the fuel value of over 1500 tons of coal. The uses of nuclear fuels to generate electrical power, to make isotopes for peaceful purposes, and to make explosives are well known. The estimated world-wide production of the 430 nuclear power reactors in operation in January 1994 amounted to about 338,000 megawatts. Uranium in the U.S.A. is controlled by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. New uses are being found for \'d2depleted\'d3 uranium, i.e., uranium with the percentage of 
\fs20 \super 235
\fs24 \nosupersub U lowered to about 0.2%. It has found use in inertial guidance devices, gyro compasses, counterweights for aircraft control surfaces, as ballast for missile reentry vehicles, and as a shielding material. Uranium metal is used for X-ray targets for production of highenergy X-rays; the nitrate has been used as photographic toner, and the acetate is used in analytical chemistry. Crystals of uranium nitrate are triboluminescent. Uranium salts have also been used for producing yellow \'d2vaseline\'d3 glass and glazes. Uranium and its compounds are highly toxic, both from a chemical and radiological standpoint. Finely divided uranium metal, being pyrophoric, presents a fire hazard. The maximum permissible total body burden of natural uranium (based on radiotoxicity) is 0.2 m Ci for soluble compounds. Recently, the natural presence of uranium in many soils has become of concern to homeowners because of the generation of radon and its daughters (see under Radon).\
}