{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16260\viewh14680\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	After Berkeley the home town of the University of California.\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Some compounds have been made and studied. Made by bombarding americium with alpha particles.\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	None known\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\

\f1\b0 	Berkelium, is the eighth member of the actinide transition series, and was the fifth transuranium element synthesized. It was produced by cyclotron bombardment of milligram amounts of 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am with helium ions at Berkeley, California. The first isotope produced had a mass number of 243 and decayed with a half-life of 4.5 hours. Eleven isotopes are now known and have been synthesized. The existence of 
\fs20 \super 249
\fs24 \nosupersub Bk, with a half-life of 320 days, makes it feasible to isolate berkelium in weighable amounts so that its properties can be investigated with macroscopic quantities. One of the first visible amounts of a pure berkelium compound, berkelium chloride, was produced in 1962. It weighed 3 billionth of a gram. Berkelium probably has not yet been prepared in elemental form, but it is expected to be a silvery metal, easily soluble in dilute mineral acids, and readily oxidized by air or oxygen at elevated temperatures to form the oxide. X-ray diffraction methods have been used to identify the following compounds: BkO
\fs20 \sub 2
\fs24 \nosupersub , BkO
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub , BkF
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub , BkCl, and BkOCl. As with other actinide elements, berkelium tends to accumulate in the skeletal system. The maximum permissible body burden of 
\fs20 \super 249
\fs24 \nosupersub Bk in the human skeleton is about 0.0004 mg. Because of its rarity, berkelium presently has no commercial or technological use.\
}