{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14480\viewh15220\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	protos (first); its is the parent of actinium, which is formed by radioactive decay.\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Does not occur in nature. Found among fission products of uranium, thorium, and plutonium.\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	None\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	The first isotope of element 91 to be discovered was 
\fs20 \super 234
\fs24 \nosupersub Pa, also known as UX2, a short-lived member of the naturally occurring 
\fs20 \super 238
\fs24 \nosupersub U decay series. It was identified by K. Fajans and O. H. Gohring in 1913 and they named the new element brevium. When the longer-lived isotope 
\fs20 \super 231
\fs24 \nosupersub Pa was identified by Hahn and Meitner in 1918, the name protoactinium was adopted as being more consistent with the characteristics of the most abundant isotope. Soddy, Cranson, and Fleck were also active in this work. The name protoactinium was shortened to protactinium in 1949. In 1927, Grosse prepared 2 mg of a white powder, which was shown to be Pa
\fs20 \sub 2
\fs24 \nosupersub O
\fs20 \sub 5
\fs24 \nosupersub . Later, in 1934, from 0.1 g of pure Pa
\fs20 \sub 2
\fs24 \nosupersub O
\fs20 \sub 5
\fs24 \nosupersub  he isolated the element by two methods, one of which was by converting the oxide to an iodide and \'d2cracking\'d3 it in a high vacuum by an electrically heated filament by the reaction:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\qc
\cf0 2PaI
\fs20 \sub 5
\fs24 \nosupersub  
\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  2Pa + 5I 
\fs20 \sub 2
\fs24 \nosupersub \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Protactinium has a bright metallic luster which it retains for some time in air. The element occurs in pitchblende to the extent of about 1 part 
\fs20 \super 231
\fs24 \nosupersub Pa to 10 million of ore. Ores from Zaire have about 3 ppm. Protactinium has twenty four isotopes and isomers, the most common of which is 
\fs20 \super 231
\fs24 \nosupersub Pr with a half-life of 32,500 years. A number of protactinium compounds are known, some of which are colored. The element is superconductive below 1.4 K. The element is a dangerous toxic material and requires precautions similar to those used when handling plutonium. In 1959 and 1961, it was announced that the Great Britain Atomic Energy Authority extracted by a 12-stage process 125 g of 99.9% protactinium, the world\'d5s only stock of the metal for many years to come. The extraction was made from 60 tons of waste material at a cost of about $500,000. Protactinium is one of the rarest and most expensive naturally occurring elements. \
}