{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16180\viewh14560\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	Greek: techn\'90tos (artificial).\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Made first by bombarding molybdenum with deuterons (heavy hydrogen) in a cyclotron.\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	Radiation source for medical research.\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Element 43 was predicted on the basis of the periodic table, and was erroneously reported as having been discovered in 1925, at which time it was named masurium. The element was actually discovered by Perrier and Segre in Italy in 1937. It was found in a sample of molybdenum, which was bombarded by deuterons in the Berkeley cyclotron, and which E. Lawrence sent to these investigators. Technetium was the first element to be produced artificially. Since its discovery, searches for the element in terrestrial materials have been made without success. If it does exist, the concentration must be very small. Technetium has been found in the spectrum of S-, M-, and N-type stars, and its presence in stellar matter is leading to new theories of the production of heavy elements in the stars. Thirty one isotopes and isomers of technetium, with atomic masses ranging from 86 to 113, are known. 
\fs20 \super 97
\fs24 \nosupersub Tc has a half-life of 2.6 x 10
\fs20 \super 6
\fs24 \nosupersub  years. 
\fs20 \super 98
\fs24 \nosupersub Tc has a half-life of 4.2 x 10
\fs20 \super 6
\fs24 \nosupersub  years. The isomeric isotope 
\fs20 \super 95m
\fs24 \nosupersub Tc, with a half-life of 61 days, is useful for tracer work, as it produces energetic gamma rays. Technetium metal has been produced in kilogram quantities. The metal was first prepared by passing hydrogen gas at 1100\'a1C over Tc
\fs20 \sub 2
\fs24 \nosupersub S7. It is now conveniently prepared by the reduction of ammonium pertechnetate with hydrogen. Technetium is a silvery-gray metal that tarnishes slowly in moist air. The chemistry of technetium is said to be similar to that of rhenium. Technetium dissolves in nitric acid, aqua regia, and conc. sulfuric acid, but is not soluble in hydrochloric acid of any strength. The element is a remarkable corrosion inhibitor for steel. It is reported that mild carbon steels may be effectively protected by as little as 55 ppm of KTcO
\fs20 \sub 4
\fs24 \nosupersub  in aerated distilled water at temperatures up to 250\'a1C. This corrosion protection is limited to closed systems, since technetium is radioactive and must be confined. 
\fs20 \super 99
\fs24 \nosupersub Tc has a specific activity of 6.2 x 10
\fs20 \super 8
\fs24 \nosupersub  Bq/g. Activity of this level must not be allowed to spread. 
\fs20 \super 99
\fs24 \nosupersub Tc is a contamination hazard and should be handled in a glove box. The metal is an excellent superconductor at 11 K and below.\
}