{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset77 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19980\viewh14940\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	From America by analogy with europium.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Sources:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Produced by bombarding plutonium with neutrons.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Uses:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Americium-241 is currently used in smoke detectors.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Additional Notes:\
	
\f1\b0 Americium was the fourth transuranium element to be discovered; the isotope 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am was identified by Seaborg, James, Morgan, and Ghiorso late in 1944 at the wartime Metallurgical Laboratory of the University of Chicago as the result of successive neutron capture reactions by plutonium isotopes in a nuclear reactor: \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\qc

\fs20 \cf0 \super 239
\fs24 \nosupersub  Pu(n,
\f2 \uc0\u978 )
\f1  
\f2\fs20 \uc0\u8594 
\f1 \super 240
\fs24 \nosupersub  Pu(n,
\f2 \uc0\u978 )
\fs20 \uc0\u8594 
\f1\fs24  
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu
\f2\fs20 \uc0\u8594 \u946 \u8594 
\f1 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Since the isotope 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am can be prepared in relatively pure form by extraction as a decay product over a period of years from strongly neutronbombarded plutonium, 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu, this isotope is used for much of the chemical investigation of this element. Better suited is the isotope 
\fs20 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub Am due to its longer half-life (7.37 x10
\fs20 \super 3
\fs24 \nosupersub  years as compared to 432.2 years for 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am). A mixture of the isotopes 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am, 
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub Am, and 
\fs20 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub Am can be prepared by intense neutron irradiation of 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am according to the reactions 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub  Am(n,
\f2 \uc0\u978 )
\f1  
\f2\fs20 \uc0\u8594 
\f1 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub  Am(n,
\f2 \uc0\u978 )
\fs20 \uc0\u8594 
\f1\fs24  
\fs20 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub Am. Nearly isotopically pure 
\fs20 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub Am can be prepared by a sequence of neutron bombardments and chemical separations as follows: neutron bombardment of 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am yields 
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu by the reactions 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub  Am(n,
\f2 \uc0\u978 )
\f1  
\f2\fs20 \uc0\u8594 
\f1 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub  Am
\f2\fs20 \uc0\u8594 
\f1\fs24  
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu, after chemical separation the 
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu can be transformed to 
\fs20 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub Am via the reactions 
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub  Pu(n,
\f2 \uc0\u978 )
\f1  
\f2\fs20 \uc0\u8594 
\f1 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub  Pu
\f2\fs20 \uc0\u8594 
\f1\fs24  
\fs20 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub Am, and the 
\fs20 \super 243
\fs24 \nosupersub Am can be chemically separated. Fairly pure 
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu can be prepared more simply by very intense neutron irradiation of 
\fs20 \super 239
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu as the result of successive neutroncapture reactions. Sixteen radioactive isotopes and isomers are now recognized. Americium metal has been prepared by reducing the trifluoride with barium vapor at 1000 to 1200\'a1C or the dioxide by lanthanum metal. The luster of freshly prepared americium metal is white and more silvery than plutonium or neptunium prepared in the same manner. It appears to be more malleable than uranium or neptunium and tarnishes slowly in dry air at room temperature. Americium is thought to exist in two forms: an alpha form which has a double hexagonal close-packed structure and a loose-packed cubic beta form. Americium must be handled with great care to avoid personal contamination. As little as 0.03 mCi of 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am is the maximum permissible total body burden. The alpha activity from 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am is about three times that of radium. When gram quantities of 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am are handled, the intense gamma activity makes exposure a serious problem. Americium dioxide, AmO\sub 2\nosupersub , is the most important oxide. AmF\sub 3\nosupersub , AmF\sub 4\nosupersub , AmCl\sub 3\nosupersub , AmBr\sub 3\nosupersub , AmI\sub 3\nosupersub , and other compounds have been prepared. The isotope 
\fs20 \super 241
\fs24 \nosupersub Am has been used asa portable source for gamma radiography. It has also been used as a radioactive glass thickness gage for the flat glass industry, and as a source of ionization for smoke detectors. Americum-243 is available from the Oak Ridge National Laboratory at a cost of $160/mg plus packing charges.\
}