{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20280\viewh13720\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	In honor of Pierre and Marie Curie.\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Made by bombarding plutonium with helium ions. So radioactive it glows in the dark.\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	As curium is only available in extremely limited quanities, it has few uses, however, it was used on a Mars mission as an alpha particle source for the Alpha Proton X-Ray Spectrometer\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Although curium follows americium in the periodic system, it was actually known before americium and was the third transuranium element to be discovered. It was identified by Seaborg, James, and Ghiorso in 1944 at the wartime Metallurgical Laboratory in Chicago as a result of helium-ion bombardment of 239Pu in the Berkeley, California, 60-inch cyclotron. Visible amounts (30 mg) of 
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub Cm, in the form of the hydroxide, were first isolated by Werner and Perlman of the University of California in 1947. In 1950, Crane, Wallmann, and Cunningham found that the magnetic susceptibility of microgram samples of CmF
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub  was of the same magnitude as that of GdF
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub . This provided direct experimental evidence for assigning an electronic configuration to Cm+3. In 1951, the same workers prepared curium in its elemental form for the first time. Sixteen isotopes of curium are now known. The most stable, 247Cm, with a half-life of 16 million years, is so short compared to the earth\'d5s age that any primordial curium must have disappeared long ago from the natural scene. Minute amounts of curium probably exist in natural deposits of uranium, as a result of a sequence of neutron captures and b decays sustained by the very low flux of neutrons naturally present in uranium ores. The presence of natural curium, however, has never been detected. 
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub Cm and 
\fs20 \super 244
\fs24 \nosupersub Cm are available in multigram quantities. 
\fs20 \super 248
\fs24 \nosupersub Cm has been produced only in milligram amounts. Curium is similar in some regards to gadolinium, its rare-earth homolog, but it has a more complex crystal structure. Curium is silver in color, is chemically reactive, and is more electropositive than aluminum. CmO
\fs20 \sub 2
\fs24 \nosupersub , Cm
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub O
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub , CmF
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub , CmF
\fs20 \sub 4
\fs24 \nosupersub , CmCl
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub , CmBr
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub , and CmI
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub  have been prepared. Most compounds of trivalent curium are faintly yellow in color. 
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub Cm generates about three watts of thermal energy per gram. This compares to one-half watt per gram of 
\fs20 \super 238
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu. This suggests use for curium as a power source. Curium absorbed into the body accumulates in the bones, and is therefore very toxic as its radiation destroys the red-cell forming mechanism. The maximum permissible total body burden of 
\fs20 \super 244
\fs24 \nosupersub Cm (soluble) in a human being is 0.3 mCi (microcurie).\
}