{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18420\viewh14640\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	After the scientist Albert Einstein.\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Made by bombarding uranium with neutrons.\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	None\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Einsteinium, the seventh transuranic element of the actinide series to be discovered, was identified by Ghiorso and co-workers at Berkeley in December 1952 in debris from the first large thermonuclear explosion, which took place in the Pacific in November 1952. The isotope produced was the 20-day 
\fs20 \super 253
\fs24 \nosupersub Es isotope. In 1961, a sufficient amount of einsteinium was produced to permit separation of a macroscopic amount of 
\fs20 \super 253
\fs24 \nosupersub Es. This sample weighed about 0.01 mg. A special magnetic-type balance was used in making this determination. 
\fs20 \super 253
\fs24 \nosupersub Es so produced was used to produce mendelevium (Element 101). About 3 mg of einsteinium has been produced at Oak Ridge National Laboratories by irradiating for several years kilogram quantities of 
\fs20 \super 239
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu in a reactor to produce 
\fs20 \super 242
\fs24 \nosupersub Pu. This was then fabricated into pellets of plutonium oxide and aluminum powder, and loaded into target rods for an initial 1-year irradiation at the Savannah River Plant, followed by irradiation in a HFIR (High Flux Isotopic Reactor). After 4 months in the HFIR the targets were removed for chemical separation of the einsteinium from californium. Seventeen isotopes and isomers of einsteinium are now recognized. 
\fs20 \super 254
\fs24 \nosupersub Es has the longest half-life (276 days). Tracer studies using 
\fs20 \super 253
\fs24 \nosupersub Es show that einsteinium has chemical properties typical of a heavy trivalent, actinide element.\
}