{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green54\blue158;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22960\viewh14900\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\b0\fs26 	 
\i\fs22 Flerovium
\i0  (Fl) is a temporary {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IUPAC"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 IUPAC}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Systematic_element_name"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 systematic element name}}. The element is often referred to as 
\b element 114
\b0 , for its atomic number.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa100
\cf0 According to IUPAC recommendations, the discoverer(s) of a new element has the right to suggest a name.
\fs18 \cf2 [9]
\fs22 \cf0  The discovery of Flerovium was recognized by JWG of IUPAC on 1 June 2011, along with that of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ununhexium"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 ununhexium}}.
\fs18 \cf2 [8]
\fs22 \cf0  According to the vice-director of JINR,
\fs18 \cf2 [1]
\fs22 \cf0  the Dubna team would like to name element 114 
\i flerovium
\i0 ,
\fs18 \cf2 [10]
\fs22 \cf0  after Soviet physicist {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgy_Flyorov"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Georgy Flyorov}} (also spelled Flerov).
\fs26 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720

\fs24 \cf0 \

\b * Sources:\

\b0\fs26 	
\b\fs22 Flerovium
\b0  is the temporary name of a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radioactivity"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 radioactive}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chemical_element"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 chemical element}} with the temporary symbol 
\b Fl
\b0  and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atomic_number"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 atomic number}} 114. There is no proposed name yet, although 
\i flerovium
\i0  (after Soviet physicist {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georgy_Flyorov"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Georgy Flyorov}}, the founder of the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joint_Institute_for_Nuclear_Research"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Joint Institute for Nuclear Research}} in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dubna"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Dubna}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russia"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Russia}}, where the element was discovered) has been discussed in the media.
\fs18 \cf2 [1]
\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa100
\cf0 About 80 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radioactive_decay"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 decays}} of atoms of Flerovium have been observed to date, 50 directly and 30 from the decay of the heavier elements {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ununhexium"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 ununhexium}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ununoctium"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 ununoctium}}. All decays have been assigned to the five neighbouring {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isotope"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 isotopes}} with mass numbers 285\'96289. The longest-lived isotope currently known is 
\fs18 \super 289
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl with a half-life of ~2.6 s, although there is evidence for a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_isomer"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 nuclear isomer}}, 
\fs18 \super 289b
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl, with a half-life of ~66 s, that would be one of the longest-lived nuclei in the superheavy element region.\
Chemical studies performed in 2007 strongly indicate that Flerovium possesses non-{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mendeleev%27s_predicted_elements"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 eka-lead}} properties and appears to behave as the first superheavy element that portrays {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noble_gas"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 noble-gas}}-like properties due to {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relativistic_quantum_chemistry"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 relativistic effects}}.
\fs18 \cf2 [2]
\fs26 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720

\fs24 \cf0 \

\b * Uses:\

\b0 	None\
\

\b * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640

\b0 \cf0 	
\fs22 In December 1998, scientists at Dubna ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joint_Institute_for_Nuclear_Research"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Joint Institute for Nuclear Research}}) in Russia bombarded a 
\fs18 \super 244
\fs22 \nosupersub Pu target with 
\fs18 \super 48
\fs22 \nosupersub Ca ions. A single atom of Flerovium, decaying by 9.67\'a0MeV alpha-emission with a half-life of 30 s, was produced and assigned to 
\fs18 \super 289
\fs22 \nosupersub 114. This observation was subsequently published in January 1999.
\fs18 \cf2 [3]
\fs22 \cf0  However, the decay chain observed has not been repeated and the exact identity of this activity is unknown, although it is possible that it is due to a meta-stable isomer, namely 
\fs18 \super 289m
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa100
\cf0 In March 1999, the same team replaced the 
\fs18 \super 244
\fs22 \nosupersub Pu target with a 
\fs18 \super 242
\fs22 \nosupersub Pu one in order to produce other isotopes. This time two atoms of Flerovium were produced, decaying by 10.29 MeV alpha-emission with a half-life of 5.5 s. They were assigned as 
\fs18 \super 287
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl.
\fs18 \cf2 [4]
\fs22 \cf0  Once again, this activity has not been seen again and it is unclear what nucleus was produced. It is possible that it was a meta-stable isomer, namely 
\fs18 \super 287m
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl.\
The now-confirmed discovery of Flerovium was made in June 1999 when the Dubna team repeated the 
\fs18 \super 244
\fs22 \nosupersub Pu reaction. This time, two atoms of element 114 were produced decaying by emission of 9.82\'a0MeV alpha particles with a half-life of 2.6\'a0s.
\fs18 \cf2 [5]
\fs22 \cf0 \
This activity was initially assigned to 
\fs18 \super 288
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl in error, due to the confusion regarding the above observations. Further work in Dec 2002 has allowed a positive reassignment to 
\fs18 \super 289
\fs22 \nosupersub 114.
\fs18 \cf2 [6]
\fs22 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 \dn6 244\up0 \
\dn6 94
\fs22 \up0 Pu + 
\fs20 \dn6 48\up0 \
\dn6 20
\fs22 \up0 Ca 
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  
\fs20 \dn6 292\up0 \
\dn6 114
\fs22 \up0 Fl
\fs18 \super *
\fs22 \nosupersub  
\f1 \uc0\u8594 
\f0  
\fs20 \dn6 289\up0 \
\dn6 114
\fs22 \up0 Fl + 3 
\fs20 \dn6 1\up0 \
\dn6 0
\fs22 \up0 n\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa100
\cf0 In May 2009, the Joint Working Party (JWP) of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IUPAC"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 IUPAC}} published a report on the discovery of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copernicium"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 copernicium}} in which they acknowledged the discovery of the isotope 
\fs18 \super 283
\fs22 \nosupersub Cn.
\fs18 \cf2 [7]
\fs22 \cf0  This therefore implies the 
\i de facto
\i0  discovery of Flerovium, from the acknowledgment of the data for the synthesis of 
\fs18 \super 287
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl and 
\fs18 \super 291{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ununhexium"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf2 \nosupersub Uuh}}
\fs22 \nosupersub  (see below), relating to 
\fs18 \super 283
\fs22 \nosupersub Cn. In 2011, IUPAC evaluated the Dubna team experiments of 1999\'962007. Whereas they found the early data inconclusive, the results of 2004\'962007 were accepted as identification of element 114.
\fs18 \cf2 [8]
\fs22 \cf0 \
The discovery of Flerovium, as 
\fs18 \super 287
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl and 
\fs18 \super 286
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl, was confirmed in January 2009 at Berkeley. This was followed by confirmation of 
\fs18 \super 288
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl and 
\fs18 \super 289
\fs22 \nosupersub Fl in July 2009 at the GSI (see section 2.1.3).
\fs24 \
}