{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18940\viewh14780\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	Latin "Hassias" meaning "Hess", the German state.\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Synthetically prepared element\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	None\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\

\f1\b0 	This element was first synthesized and identified in 1984 by the same G.S.I. Darmstadt group who first identified Elements 107 and 109. Presumably this element will have chemical properties similar to osmium. Isotope 
\fs20 \super 265
\fs24 \nosupersub Hs was produced using a beam of 
\fs20 \super 58
\fs24 \nosupersub Fe projectiles, produced by the Universal Linear Accelerator (UNILAC) to bombard a 
\fs20 \super 208
\fs24 \nosupersub Pb target. Discovery of Elements 107 and 109 was made using detection of isotopes with odd proton and neutron numbers. Elements having even atomic numbers are thought to be less stable against spontaneous fusion than odd elements. The production of 
\fs20 \super 265
\fs24 \nosupersub Hs in the same reaction as was used at G.S.I. was confirmed at Dubna with detection of the 7th member of the decay chain 
\fs20 \super 253
\fs24 \nosupersub Es. Isotopes of Element 108 were believed to decay by spontaneous fission, explaining why 109 was produced before 108. Isotope 
\fs20 \super 265
\fs24 \nosupersub Hs and 
\fs20 \super 266
\fs24 \nosupersub Hs are thought to decay to 
\fs20 \super 261
\fs24 \nosupersub Sg, which in turn decays to 
\fs20 \super 257
\fs24 \nosupersub Rf and 
\fs20 \super 253
\fs24 \nosupersub No. The IUPAC adopted the name hassium, after the German state of Hesse, in 1997.\
}