{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13460\viewh13980\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	After the scientist Dmitri Ivanovitch Mendeleyev, who devised the periodic table.\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Made by bombarding einsteinium with helium ions.\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	None\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Mendelevium, the ninth transuranium element of the actinide series to be discovered, was first identified by Ghiorso, Harvey, Choppin, Thompson, and Seaborg early in 1955 as a result of the bombardment of the isotope 
\fs20 \super 253
\fs24 \nosupersub Es with helium ions in the Berkeley 60-inch cyclotron. The isotope produced was 
\fs20 \super 256
\fs24 \nosupersub Md, which has a half-life of 78 min. This first identification was notable in that 
\fs20 \super 256
\fs24 \nosupersub Md was synthesized on a one-atom-at-a-time basis. Sixteen isotopes and isomers are now recognized. 
\fs20 \super 258
\fs24 \nosupersub Md has a half-life of 51.5 days. This isotope has been produced by the bombardment of an isotope of einsteinium with ions of helium. It now appears possible that eventually enough 
\fs20 \super 258
\fs24 \nosupersub Md can be made so that some of its physical properties can be determined. 
\fs20 \super 256
\fs24 \nosupersub Md has been used to elucidate some of the chemical properties of mendelevium in aqueous solution. Experiments seem to show that the element possesses a moderately stable dipositive (II) oxidation state in addition to the tripositive (III) oxidation state,which is characteristic of actinide elements.\
}