{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22660\viewh15200\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Latin: plumbum.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Sources:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Found most often in ores called galena.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Uses:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Used in solder, shielding against radiation, in batteries and ammunition.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Long known, mentioned in Exodus. The alchemists believed lead to be the oldest metal and associated it with the planet Saturn. Native lead occurs in nature, but it is rare. Lead is obtained chiefly from galena (PbS) by a roasting process. Anglesite (PbSO
\fs20 \sub 4
\fs24 \nosupersub ), cerussite (PbCO
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub ), and minim (Pb
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub O
\fs20 \sub 4
\fs24 \nosupersub ) are other common lead minerals. Lead is a bluish-white metal of bright luster, is very soft, highly malleable, ductile, and a poor conductor of electricity. It is very resistant to corrosion; lead pipes bearing the insignia of Roman emperors, used as drains from the baths, are still in service. It is used in containers for corrosive liquids (such as sulfuric acid) and may be toughened by the addition of a small percentage of antimony or other metals. Natural lead is a mixture of four stable isotopes: 
\fs20 \super 204
\fs24 \nosupersub Pb (1.4%), 
\fs20 \super 206
\fs24 \nosupersub Pb (24.1%), 
\fs20 \super 207
\fs24 \nosupersub Pb (22.1%), and 
\fs20 \super 208
\fs24 \nosupersub Pb (52.4%). Lead isotopes are the end products of each of the three series of naturally occurring radioactive elements: 
\fs20 \super 206
\fs24 \nosupersub Pb for the uranium series, 
\fs20 \super 207
\fs24 \nosupersub Pb for the actinium series, and 
\fs20 \super 208
\fs24 \nosupersub Pb for the thorium series. Forty other isotopes of lead, all of which are radioactive, are recognized. Its alloys include solder, type metal, and various antifriction metals. Great quantities of lead, both as the metal and as the dioxide, are used in storage batteries. Much metal also goes into cable covering, plumbing, ammunition, and in the manufacture of lead tetraethyl. The metal is very effective as a sound absorber, is used as a radiation shield around X-ray equipment and nuclear reactors, and is used to absorb vibration. White lead, the basic carbonate, sublimed white lead (PbSO
\fs20 \sub 4
\fs24 \nosupersub ) chrome yellow (PbCrO
\fs20 \sub 4
\fs24 \nosupersub ), red lead (Pb
\fs20 \sub 3
\fs24 \nosupersub O
\fs20 \sub 4
\fs24 \nosupersub ), and other lead compounds are used extensively in paints, although in recent years the use of lead in paints has been drastically curtailed to eliminate or reduce health hazards. Lead oxide is used in producing fine \'d2crystal glass\'d3 and \'d2flint glass\'d3 of a high index of refraction for achromatic lenses. The nitrate and the acetate are soluble salts. Lead salts such as lead arsenate have been used as insecticides, but their use in recent years has been practically eliminated in favor of less harmful organic compounds. Care must be used in handling lead as it is a cumulative poison. Environmental concern with lead poisoning has resulted in a national program to eliminate the lead in gasoline. Lead is extremely toxic, but its effects are accumulative and most often develop after extended exposure. Lead affects the nervous system, causing mental retardation or other nervous disorders. It also affects other organs of the body. People suffering from lead poisoning may exhibit weakness, general disability, nervous disorders and eventual death. Children are most susceptable, partly because they have rapid motabolism and are small and partly because of their habits. They chew on things that might contain lead paint and play on floors and ground that might be contaminated, often putting their fingers in their mouth.\
}