{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17340\viewh14900\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\f1\b0 	From Thule ancient name of Scandinavia.\
\

\f0\b * Sources:\

\f1\b0 	Found with other rare earths in the minerals gadolinite, euxenite, xenotime, and others.\
\

\f0\b * Uses:\

\f1\b0 	Radioactive thulium is used to power portable x-ray machines, eliminating the need for electrical equipment.\
\

\f0\b * Additional Notes:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 	Discovered in 1879 by Cleve. Thulium occurs in small quantities along with other rare earths in a number of minerals. It is obtained commercially from monazite, which contains about 0.007% of the element. Thulium is the least abundant of the rare earth elements, but with new sources recently discovered, it is now considered to be about as rare as silver, gold, or cadmium. Ion-exchange and solvent extraction techniques have recently permitted much easier separation of the rare earths, with much lower costs. Only a few years ago, thulium metal was not obtainable at any cost. Thulium can be isolated by reduction of the oxide with lanthanum metal or by calcium reduction of the anhydrous fluoride. The pure metal has a bright, silvery luster. It is reasonably stable in air, but the metal should be protected from moisture in a closed container. The element is silver-gray, soft, malleable, and ductile, and can be cut with a knife. Thirty eight isotopes and isomers are known, with atomic masses ranging from 146 to 176. Natural thulium, which is 100% 
\fs20 \super 169
\fs24 \nosupersub Tm, is stable. Because of the relatively high price of the metal, thulium has not yet found many practical applications. 
\fs20 \super 169
\fs24 \nosupersub Tm bombarded in a nuclear reactor can be used as a radiation source in portable Xray equipment. 
\fs20 \super 171
\fs24 \nosupersub Tm is potentially useful as an energy source. Natural thulium also has possible use in ferrites (ceramic magnetic materials) used in microwave equipment. As with other lanthanides, thulium has a low-to-moderate acute toxic rating. It should be handled with care.\
}