{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf230
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22960\viewh14900\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 * Name Origin:\

\b0 	Ununhexium is historically known as eka-polonium. Ununhexium is a temporary IUPAC systematic element name. Scientists usually refer to the element simply as element 116 (or E116). According to IUPAC recommendations, the discoverer(s) of a new element has the right to suggest a name.\
The discovery of ununhexium was recognized by JWG of IUPAC on 1 June 2011, along with that of ununquadium. According to the vice-director of JINR, the Dubna team would like to name element 116 moscovium, after the Moscow Oblast in which Dubna is located.\
As of December 1, 2011, the name livermorium and the symbol Lv are in the IUPAC name approval process. The name recognizes the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, in Livermore, California, USA, which collaborated with JINR on the discovery.\
\

\b * Sources:\

\b0 	Ununhexium is the temporary name of a synthetic superheavy element with the temporary symbol Uuh and atomic number 116. As of December 1, 2011, the name livermorium is in the IUPAC name approval process.\
It is placed as the heaviest member of group 16 (VIA) although a sufficiently stable isotope is not known at this time to allow chemical experiments to confirm its position as the heavier homologue to polonium.\
It was first detected in 2000 and since the discovery about 30 atoms of ununhexium have been produced, either directly or as a decay product of ununoctium, and are associated with decays from the four neighboring isotopes with masses 290\'96293. The most stable isotope to date is ununhexium-293 with a half-life of ~60 ms.\
* Uses:\
	None\
\

\b * Additional Notes:\

\b0 	On July 19, 2000, scientists at Dubna (JINR) detected a single decay from an atom of ununhexium following the irradiation of a Cm-248 target with Ca-48 ions. The results were published in December, 2000. This 10.54 MeV alpha-emitting activity was originally assigned to 292Uuh due to the correlation of the daughter to previously assigned 288Uuq. However, that assignment was later altered to 289Uuq, and hence this activity was correspondingly changed to 293Uuh. Two further atoms were reported by the institute during their second experiment between April\'96May 2001.\
\
	In the same experiment they also detected a decay chain which corresponded to the first observed decay of ununquadium and assigned to 289Uuq. This activity has not been observed again in a repeat of the same reaction. However, its detection in this series of experiments indicates the possibility of the decay of an isomer of ununhexium, namely 293bUuh, or a rare decay branch of the already discovered isomer,293aUuh, in which the first alpha particle was missed. Further research is required to positively assign this activity.\
\
	The team repeated the experiment in April\'96May 2005 and detected 8 atoms of ununhexium. The measured decay data confirmed the assignment of the discovery isotope as 293Uuh. In this run, the team also observed 292Uuh in the 4n channel for the first time.\
\
	In May 2009, the Joint Working Party reported on the discovery of copernicium and acknowledged the discovery of the isotope 283Cn. This implied the de facto discovery of ununhexium,[original research?] as 291Uuh (see below), from the acknowledgment of the data relating to the granddaughter 283Cn, although the actual discovery experiment may be determined as that above.\
In 2011, the IUPAC evaluated the Dubna team results and accepted them as a reliable identification of element 116.\
}